[Music]
intense video release today of the
Toledo zookeeper injured horribly by
Louie the elephant good evening I'm
Shaun Hegarty and I'm Laura
Emerson here is the news for Wednesday
July 21st the family of Don red fox has
now agreed to release the video to end
all speculation about what happened
earlier this month
Alison Brown is on the scene at the zoo
with a look at the tape and how the
victim is doing today is in serious but
stable condition right now
after many injuries including collapsed
lungs at the same time the video of July
first incident is being released to the
public some people watching it though
may feel uncomfortable this surveillance
video shows clearly what happened in the
elephant enclosure at the Toledo Zoo
before and during the elephant encounter
Don red fox a longtime elephant trainer
goes into the area to drop off fruits
and veggies a routine job but zoo
officials believe both he and Louie the
elephant were startled dr. Ann Baker
says that's evident by Louis flaring his
ears you can see red fox escapes harm
the first time and waits outside of the
enclosure but then he comes back in he
goes to the left hind side of Louie and
tries to get Louie to stationed there
beside him which is that's how we do our
training and clearly Louie is having
none of it
red fox gets pinned in the corner dr.
Baker believes Louie may have been
engaging in sparring or play fighting
problem is the elephant is 4,000 pounds
it's almost as if Louie's saying done
get up I'm not finished sparring but he
does let Don leave the enclosure at any
point in time who we could have killed
on it is certain that Don's description
of the
is going to be incredibly important in
our understanding of the event now the
red fox family did have a temporary
restraining order on this video to
prevent it from being released but that
actually expired this morning meanwhile
Louie is in protective contact which
essentially means workers can't be in
the same enclosure as the elephant's
reporting on the scene from South Toledo
Alison brown Fox Toledo news PETA People
for the Ethical Treatment of Animals
released this statement amount of videos
today the video of the attack on the
keeper at the Toledo Zoo demonstrates
that the use of the old-style free
contact system to handle elephants at
the zoo is downright dangerous
dominating and punishing elephants by
striking these animals with bull hooks
puts keepers at constant risk of injury
or death and raises serious animal
welfare concerns so do you think Louie
attacked or was it purely an accident
that is our feedback question you can
comment on fox Toledo's Facebook Twitter
or send us an email